How the Pelgo Slums came to be:

Once a quiet and unremarkable town on the desert planet of Tatooine, Mos Pelgo had become a hotbed of activity in recent years. Its population had grown to a boiling point, overflowing with merchants, smugglers, mercenaries, and spice dealers. The town had become a hub for bounty hunters, and murders in the main street had become a common site. Mos Pelgo had long been a covert refuge for the notorious Tempest Trading Company, which often engaged in illicit activities. Yet, the surge in criminal activities within the town had reached a tipping point, impeding the smooth running of business.

The increased activity had not gone unnoticed by the powers that be and the regional governor of the Tatooine system had taken notice. Even the Notorious Jabba the Hutt had taken issue with the prominence of the city, even declaring in a private meeting with the City’s mayor, Marshall Solowest, that all the new attention was bad for business and the relationship between the Hutts and Mos Pelgo might suffer as a result. The meeting was tense and both the Black Sand Mercenaries and Jabba’s henchmen seemed ready to draw blasters at a moments notice.

In an effort to calm tensions the mayor ordered the Black Sand Mercenaries to raid a few structures in the seediest part of town, hoping to put a dent in the growing unsanctioned criminal activity… 

The raids were mostly successful, but they had unintended consequences. Many of the displaced criminals had started to form a small neighborhood just outside of Mos Pelgo in the shadow of Jabba’s Palace, seeking shelter from the raids that had plagued their operations in Pelgo. The locals began to call it the "Pelgo Slums," a playful yet fitting name for the ramshackle settlement.

As the twin suns set over the Valley of the Winds and its outlying neighborhoods, the new slums slowly came alive with the humming sound of a few rusty equipment factories, some vendors hawking their wares, and the occasional scuffle breaking out between rival factions. Meanwhile, the rest of Mos Pelgo went about its business, with some business owners even making light of the new settlement. 