
Darshin says: Does Astro still craft?

Snailey/Denie/Korynn says: <@153664724683194368>

Odiwan/Kyana/Kedof says: Message sent

Darshin says: Hey thanks guys!

Shokou Khey'et says: Doctor or Combat Medic, Doctor or Combat Medic...

Traise/Tasya says: are you mastering the choice?

Shokou Khey'et says: I'm considering master either of them, yes. I have an adequate understanding of what the two Professions do and the differences between them, but I wouldn't say "No" to anyone further elaborating about them.

Traise/Tasya says: god, I have been all over this discord today with my opinions. I apologize if anybody feels overrun or left out due to this.

With that said my 2 cents...lol

Shokou Khey'et says: I'd say this is an open discussion that anyone is welcome and encouraged to chime in on, if they so please.

Traise/Tasya says: Without a combat profession a Mdoc is simply a buff bot as most have picked up some sort of healing to compliment their build. The need for a dedicated healer(like other MMO's) isn't as prevalent here.

I enjoy being able to use offensive medicine as well as keeping myself or others alive. MCM's heals aren't as potent but considering everyone else in the group also has heals....it's usually enough.

Emryssa / Tarisa / Seungwan says: Also keep in mind what direction you're going, melee or ranged. CM synergizes well with ranged professions since it requires the ranged support line. You can go MCM, Master a ranged profession and still dip a few lines into another ranged profession. If you go melee and MCM, you will be be able to only master one melee profession without extra skillpoints.

Shokou Khey'et says: I am aware that my intention of putting together what will likely be a hodgepodge of a build won't be the most, ah, *optimal*. And although nothing as of right now is set in stone, I'd very much like to get Pistoleer and a portion of the Smuggler profession involved in this build.

ornj says: hodgepodge builds are best builds

Connie says: I am a TKM / Master Combat Medic and I am really enjoying it 🙂

Connie says: I love the dot stacks

Shokou Khey'et says: As I mention before, I've been finding it actually kinda fun, mulling over builds to accommodate to whatever sort of niches my RP character may have. More immersive that way!

Connie says: Apply 4 dots and then let them eat away as I use my TKM abilities.

Trenn Volta says: Hello

Shokou Khey'et says: While I shall apologize for my previous and ensuing rambling about character builds... I'm starting to like how this is looking:
https://swgr.org/skill-calculator/?skills=WyJjb21iYXRfcGlzdG9sX21hc3RlciIsyBdzbXVnZ2xlcsoZc2NpZW5jZV9tZWRpY19jcmFmdGluZ18wNNEcYWJpbGl0eV8wM9EbaW5qdXJ5xDVd

I do believe I'll be ditching mastering either Doctor/Combat Medic in favor of devoting just enough points in Medic for their unique craftables and healing. Just enough to still contribute to the whole "Shady Spice Dealer" gimmick I mentioned before.

Ayvd/Irai/Oogie says: My one alt is Master Smuggler, Master Pistoleer with CM tossed in for healing and I couldn't be happier.  It makes a great pve/roleplay alt and the Smuggler and pistoleer compliment each other.  Toss in my combat droid (melee and ranged droids) and it's a great build for most pve things

Shokou Khey'et says: Ooh! Why, thank you very much for telling me so. It certainly helps me feel like it's that much more of a valid and practical build. 😊

Ayvd/Irai/Oogie says: This is a bit off topic but I am curious why I don't see many melee droids being used?  Most are the ranged ones.  I know I use my ranged one more but almost never see the melee ones except mine

Traise/Tasya says: I blame the cannon. We've all been conditioned that droids use blaster bolts.

Emryssa / Tarisa / Seungwan says: I always use a magnaguard on my ranged toon and a SPD with my melee. Don't know if it makes a difference, I just like it that way.

Trenn Volta says: I am Magnaguard MKV

I'adri says: I would like to create a player city in the middle of the Rori map

I'adri says: Suprises there isn't any of the planet at all

Ayvd/Irai/Oogie says: There used to be

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: There was a spot my dad and his friends had a village on Live there in Rori. If I could find the exact spot to have my little Darkcloud hill/terrace I would 100% start up a third SHADE affiliated town with you there

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: Alas my memory is very shoddy because I was 9 the last time I saw it and I dont remember coords.

Darshin says: Rori is definitely one of my favorites. I would totally park one of my characters there.

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: Maybe I will start scouting out more for that apot and see if we can start another Shade affiliated town.

Darshin says: It takes dedication. I lived in Raven Crag  ( now abandoned ) and its pain in the ass until you get a shuttle.

Shokou Khey'et says: I may or may not have some aspirations of my own, if albeit in the hopefully-not-too-distant future, to cobble together a small RP hotspot of my own. Vague, I know, but I've a fair few ideas for it. One day, perhaps.

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: I wanna sway the village was within 4 km of Narmle. Ill do some exploration. A rp spot could be nice. We could pay homage to the founder of Mos Pelgo and call it Sembian Springs or New Sembia

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: And make it a little rp resort.

I'adri says: I would love to help start tyat town Can you come on rori with me and we can scout

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: Im doing some stuff with my brother on xbox tonight, but I can log on in the morning, scout some spots and mail you some waypoint coords

I'adri says: Lets get three locations each and then present them to each other

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: Sounds good to me.

I'adri says: Bh will love us!

Shokou Khey'et says: If I may be shameless to ask here, who here has an entertainer?

Traise/Tasya says: 👋

I'adri says: We have three glaring holes on Rori to fill

Shokou Khey'et says: How convenient! If you happen to find yourself in-game in the near future, may I come by for a quick Image Design session?

I'adri says: Nw has nothing middle has nothing and east has nothing

Traise/Tasya says: logging her in now

I'adri says: Who do you want me to mail

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: Send them to Kezith or Adrianne

I'adri says: What clans are we close to maybe we can convince one of them to build a city too

I'adri says: So much water

I'adri says: Oh I think I found the perfect spot I wish you could see it

Kezith (Adrianne/Samahria) says: Make it into a waypoint and send me the coords

I'adri says: 

I'adri says: It is so open

I'adri says: I will send you the wp but how does it look

I'adri says: I have one more spot I want to check out to the east yet

I'adri says: I sent you both locations

I'adri says: Anyone up for hunting krayts

Shokou Khey'et says: I'd like to know more about the Pelgo Slums. I assume it has some RP relevance?

I'adri says: This sucks I wish I had know that you couldn't trade a pet once it is hatched l, now have a pet I can't use on a character that is no longer CH

Nathaniel Esquire says: It states it in the wiki that they cannot be traded

I'adri says: I know which is crappyz been trying to make a BE pet myself now but little luck

LordKorto says: I did raise this with you yesterday - https://discord.com/channels/941946604309594142/959176685247410177/1164303031697940580

LordKorto says: Im happy to help you understand BE a bit more if you want to. Its a tough profession to take on, expensive and very convoluted. Not even some of the most successful BEs on the server truly understand how it works behind the scenes, so dont get disheartened

I'adri says: They need to add krayt lairs as missions from the terminal, cause all kinds of chaos lol

Nathaniel Esquire says: You think that but we have krayt canyon here. You'll be fighting one or two and another one or two will either spawn on you or take a 150m walk right on top of you

LordKorto says: Once you know where they spawn you can avoid the random spawns. But it takes a while to become familiar with that.

Nathaniel Esquire says: Yeah it seems like it's better to start at the ass end and work your way forward

LordKorto says: If you go behind the shuttle there is an area with the sparsest of spawns. Arrive and hang there for 1-3 mins and let the spawns come in. Then you should be good

Darshin says: ☀️

Olecram DeLeon says: ☀️

Empyers (Drait/Terga) says: ~~dont suppose anyones in moenia atm?~~

Ventus/Venarte/Rumakai says: ☀️☕☀️☕

Olecram DeLeon says: Sometimes I just turn on the game to hear the ambient sounds.
